
DataBase Concepts
   1) What is Database
    A database is a collection of information that is organized so that it can be easily accessed, managed and updated.
   2) What is Table
    A table is a collection of related data held in a structured format within a database. It consists of columns, and rows.
   3) What is Column
    A column is a set of data values of a particular simple type, one for each row of the table.
    The columns provide the structure according to which the rows are composed. 
    When a column allows data values of a single type, it does not essentially mean it only has simple text values. Other databases go beyond and let the data be stored as a file on Operating System whereas the column data only covers a pointer or a link to the actual file.[2
    In relational database terminology, column's equivalent is called attribute.
   4) What is Row
    In the context of a relational database, a row—also called a record or tuple—represents a single, implicitly structured data item in a table. 
    In simple terms, a database table can be thought of as consisting of rows and columns or fields.
    Each row in a table represents a set of related data, and every row in the table has the same structure.
   5) Example for Inner join'
    The most frequently used and important of the joins is the INNER JOIN. They are also referred to as an EQUIJOIN.
    The INNER JOIN creates a new result table by combining column values of two tables (table1 and table2) based upon the join-predicate. 
    The query compares each row of table1 with each row of table2 to find all pairs of rows which satisfy the join-predicate.
    When the join-predicate is satisfied, column values for each matched pair of rows of A and B are combined into a result row.
   6) Example for Left outer join
    The result of a left outer join (or simply left join) for tables A and B always contains all rows of the "left" table (A), even if the join-condition does not find any matching row in the "right" table (B). This means that if the ON clause matches 0 (zero) rows in B (for a given row in A), the join will still return a row in the result (for that row)—but with NULL in each column from B. A left outer join returns all the values from an inner join plus all values in the left table that do not match to the right table, including rows with NULL (empty) values in the link column.
   7)Example for Max, sun, Avg
    Just as the name suggests, the MAX function is the opposite of the MIN function. It returns the largest value from the specified table field.
    Let's assume we want to get the year that the latest movie in our database was released. We can easily use the MAX function to achieve that.
    SUM ---Suppose we want  a report that gives total  amount of payments made so far.
    We can use the MySQL SUM function which returns the sum of all the values in the specified column. 
    SUM works on numeric fields only. Null values are excluded from the result returned.
    AVG---MySQL  AVG function returns the average of the values in a specified column. Just like the SUM function, it works only on numeric data types.
    Suppose we want to find the average amount paid. We can use the following query
   8)Example for Group by
    This SQL tutorial explains how to use the SQL GROUP BY clause with syntax and examples. Click the Try It button next to an example to test it for yourself in our SQL Editor.
    The SQL GROUP BY clause can be used in a SELECT statement to collect data across multiple records and group the results by one or more columns.
   9) Example for Having
    The SQL HAVING clause is used in combination with the GROUP BY clause to restrict the groups of returned rows to only those whose the condition is TRUE.
   10) Example for Where condition
    The WHERE clause is used to extract only those records that fulfill a specified criterion.
   11) Example for Primary key
    The PRIMARY KEY constraint uniquely identifies each record in a database table.
    Primary keys must contain UNIQUE values.
    A primary key column cannot contain NULL values.
    Most tables should have a primary key, and each table can have only ONE primary key. 
   12) Example for Foreign key
    A foreign key is a column (or columns) that references a column (most often the primary key) of another table.
    The purpose of the foreign key is to ensure referential integrity of the data.
    In other words, only values that are supposed to appear in the database are permitted.
   13) Finding second highest salary from row table
    SELECT MAX(Salary) From Employee WHERE Salary < ( SELECT Max(Salary) FROM Employee).
